---
layout: post
title:  class 27
date:   2017-03-24 11:00:05
categories: Graph_Theory_note
tags: Graph tree spanning_tree
---
* content
{: toc}


Algorithm (growing a spanning tree)





Input: G = (V,E) and $$v \in V$$

$$V_{0}$$ := $$\{v\}$$

$$E_{0}$$ : = $$\emptyset$$

for i = 1 to $$\lvert V \lvert -1$$
look for $$e= \{x,y\} \in E$$ such that $$x \in V_{i-1}$$ but $$y \not\in V_{i-1}$$

If there is such an e

$$V_{i}: = V_{i-1} \cup \{y\}$$
$$E_{i}: = E_{i-1} \cup \{e\}$$

else
return ($$V_{i-1},E_{i-1}$$)

do

return $$(V_{n-1},E_{n-1}),where n = \lvert V \lvert$$


Proposition
Algorithm 2 returns a spanning tree for the connected component of v in G. (so if G is connected, return spanning tree for G)

Proof:
By construction, the returned graph $$T = (v_{i-1},E_{i-1})$$
is connected and has 1 more vertex than edges. 

So by tree characterization theorem,T is a tree. 

Remains to show: vertex set V(T) = vertices of components of v. 

$$\subset$$: trivial
(since T is connected)

$$$$: suppose for contradiction. There is some w in RHS but not LHS since w in RHS, $$\exists$$ walk v to w $$v=v_{0},v_{1},v_{2},...,v_{k} = w$$Then $$w\not\in V(T),Suppose v_{i} is the first vertex on the walk not in V(T)$$
so that $$v_{i-1} \in V(T)$$
and $$\{v_{i-1},v_{i}\} \in E$$
so the algorithm should have added v_{i},$$\{v_{i-1},v_{i}\}$$ to T. So it is a contradiction. Q.E.D

Algorithm 1 is good for larger number of edges. 
Algorithm 2 is good for smaller numbers of edges. 

Remark: Both Algorithms 1,2 can be implemented efficiently. 

Problem (Network building)

You're networking Mississippi State compus. 
want: All building to be connected to internet. No redundant cables (to save money)

(ie, a spanning tree for complete graph on the set of all the buildings)

Not all edges are the same(cheaper to cable. )

e.g

Allen$$\iff$$ McCool
Allen$$\iff$$ Student Union

we want to build the cheapest possible spanning tree!

Math version:

Assign weight (cost) to each edge of $$K_{n}$$.




