---
layout: post
title:  class 9 Chapter 3.8 Lady Hat problem
date:   2017-02-01 11:00:05
categories: Graph_Theory_note
tags: intro binomial_theorem 
---

## Example 1

How many ways to count 6 digits numbers without consecutive 12 digits. 





$$10^{6}$$ total numbers

Let $$A_{1}$$, = numbers of form $$12- - - -$$

$$A_{2}$$, = numbers of form $$-12 - - -$$ etc

Then $$\lvert A_{i} \lvert = 10^{4}$$ for each $$i = 1,2,...,5$$

Also, 

$$\lvert A_{1} \cup A_{2} \lvert$$ = 0 = $$ \lvert A_{i} \cup A_{i+1} \lvert \ for \ i = \{1,2,3,4,5$$

But 

$$ \lvert A_{1} \cup A_{3} \lvert  = 10^{2} = \lvert A_{1} \cup A_{4} \lvert$$ = (6 pairs)

and all triple n's are $$\emptyset$$

except for $$ \lvert A_{1} \cup A_{3} \cup A_{5} \lvert$$

So the number of 6 digits numbers with no "12" is 

$$10^{6} - 5\cdot 10^4 + 6 \cdot 10^{2} + 0 - 1 - 0 + 0 - 0$$

Q How many 7 digits numbers without consecutive 12 digits 8?

solve it as homework. 

## Ch 3.8 Derangements

n graduates throw up their hats at the end of ceremony. 

After, each person gets back a random hat (chosen uniformly)

What is the probability that no grad gets her own hat?

Equivalently: 

Choose a permutation of $$\{1,2,3,..., n\}$$ uniformly at random

What's the probability that there is no i such that $$\sigma (i) = i?$$

(no i so that ith number goes in the ith place. )

e.g

2341 is good<br>
2431 is bad<br>

### Definition: A **fixed point** of a function $$f:\mathbf{x} \to \mathbf{x}$$ 
is a value x for which $$f(x) = x$$

A permutation with no fixed point is called **derrangement**

Our questions:

How many derangents of n letters?

(compare D with the number of total permutation, n!)

Again, we use Inclusion and Exclusion to count the the "bad" permutations

Let's take $$A_{i}$$ = permutations which fix i,  

is in $$ 1243 A_{1} \land A_{2} not A_{3} or A_{4} n=4$$

Then $$\lvert A_{i} lvert =(n-1)!$$ fix 1 element, permute the other freely. 

And $$\lvert A_{i} \land A_{j} lvert = (n-2)! j≠ i$$ by fixing 2 points, permute others freely

And $$\lvert A_{i} \land A_{j} \land A_{k} lvert = (n-3)!$$

$$\lvert  \bigcap_{k \subset A_{k}} \lvert = (n- \lvert I \lvert)!$$ by fixing $$\lvert I \lvert$$ points permute the others freely

$$ \lvert \bigcup_{i=1}^{n}A_{i} \lvert = \sum_{\emptyset ≠ I ≤ {1,2,...,n}} (-1)^{\lvert I \lvert -1} \cdot (n- \lvert I lvert )!$$

Stratify by $$\lvert I \lvert = k  \implies \sum_{k=1}^{n}(-1)^{k-1} \cdot (n-k)! \implies \sum_{k=1}^{n}(-1)^{k-1}\frac{n!}{k!}$$

So the number of derrangements = n! - above

$$ \binom{n}{0}\frac{n!}{0!}-above \implies \sum_{k=0}^{n}(-1)^{k}\binom{n}{k} \cdot (n-k)! = \sum_{k=0}^{n} (-1)^{k} \frac{n!}{k!}$$


