---
layout: post
title:  class 28
date:   2017-03-29 11:00:05
categories: Graph_Theory_note
tags: Graph tree minimal_weight_spanning_tree
---

* content
{: toc}


Alg 2: (for spanning tree) "Repeatedly attach a leaf"






Prop2: Alg 3 returns spanning tree for the connected conponent of the intitial vertex in G. 
Problem: 
Network building - network e.g. Msstate campus
- every pair of buildings has cost for running a direct cable between them. 
- want least cost subgraph which connects the entire campus, I.E least cost spanning tree. 

**Mathematically:** 

Start with $$K_{n}$$ or another connected graph G. (eg: $$K_{n}$$, n = number buildings on campus)
Assign a weight w(e)
to each edge e. (so w is a function $$w:E \to \mathbf{R}$$)
eg: the cost to lay a cable. 

Problem: 
Minimal weight spanning tree problem. 
Find a spanning tree in G with minimum weight among the collection of all spanning trees. 

i.e minimize $$\sum_{e \in E(T)}w(e)$$

To do this: we need a way to exchange high weight edges for lower weight edges. 

**Lemma:** ([Matroid Lemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matroid))

Let G = (V,E) be a graph with $$\lvert V \lvert=n$$

If $$E_{f} =\{f_{1},f_{2},...,f_{k-1}\}$$

If $$E_{g} =\{g_{1},g_{2},...,g_{k}\}$$ (notice k, 1 more than $$E_{f}$$)

these are collection of edges of G. such that, ($$V,E_{f}$$ and (V,E) are cycle free subgraph$$\exists g \in E_{g}$$ such that $$E_{f} \cup \{g\}$$ "is" cycle free.

**Remark 1:** Abuse of notation
We used $$E_{f} \cup \{g\}$$ to mean both the edge set, and also the graph (V,$$E_{f} \cup \{g\}$$)

I'll do more of this in the proof. 

**Remark 2:** Why "Matroid"
The above lemma analogous to a lemma from Linear Algebra

### Lemma: (Linear Algebra Matroid Exchange)

Let V be a vector space, like $$\mathbf{R}^{n}$$
If $$v_{1},v_{2},...,v_{k-1} \in V$$ are linearly independent. 
and $$w_{1},w_{2},...,w_{k} \in V """$$
then $$\exists j$$, such that $$v_{1},v_{2},...,v_{k-1},w_{j}$$ are linear independent. 

Linear indepence is often calculated with matrices $$\leadsto$$ Matroid.

Proof of Matroid Lemma for graphs. 
An edge $$g\in E_{g}$$ is in a cycle of $$E_{f} \cup \{g\}$$
$$\iff$$ endpoints of g are in the same connected components of $$E_{f}$$

$$E_{f}$$ is a forest, so by Tree Characterization Theorem.
$$\lvert V\lvert-\lvert E\lvert =$$ number of components of $$E_{f}$$

$$\implies$$ number (components of $$E_{f}= n-(k-1)=n-k+1$$) (because $$E_{f}$$ has k-1 edges as previously stated)

Similarly, number of components of $$E_{g} = n-k$$

Each component of $$E_{g}$$ intersects with some number of compnents of $$E_{f}$$. By counting, some components of $$E_{g}$$ intersects 2 components of $$E_{f}$$("pigeonhole principle"). 

$$implies \exists$$  an edge from $$E_{g}$$ which goes between 2 components of $$E_{f}$$ as desired. Q.E.D




